Over the past two or three years there has been a continual debate over whether or not boxing should be banned. This discussion arose after lots of boxers started to get serious injuries and brain damages as a result of boxing.
Boxing today, and has always, been a popular spectator sport and nowadays it is a big money business. Fighters, at the top, get paid millions of pounds to fight. The fighters themselves, the managers, the sponsors, the organisers, the betting shops and most spectators do not want the sport to be banned. In opposition are the people who do not like any blood sports, doctor etc, recipients of serious injuries ie, boxers themselves and their relations, etc.
The people who want the sport to be banned, say this because it is not right for people to fight, and there is a too high risk of serious injury and brain damage caused by the severe pounding that the head takes during a boxing match. They say that boxing should be banned because the only way to stop these accidents happening is to stop boxing, and the only way to stop people boxing is to ban boxing and make it illegal.
The illegalisation of boxing I believe however could only lead to the introduction of underground boxing matches if out of sight of the law. And this could be a bad thing because although there would many people there working, laying bets etc. there would be no supervision and professional referring so boxing accidents may occur and they may result worst than they do now, because there would be no immediate medical attention due to the illegal nature of the matches.
This may of course not happen and the banning of boxing will go down badly, but with that will be the end of it.
There semm to be many more reasons why boxing should be kept going rather than banned.
One of the major arguments is that boxing is the most natural sport in the world, and so why should it be banned just because of the risk of injury. There is just as much chance of getting brain damage by being in a car crash etc. as there is in a boxing match, and car crashes occur much more often than boxing matches. So when viewed like this, boxing appears quite safe.
Another reason not to ban boxing is because it is very popular, and millions of people worldwide get entertained by watching boxing, so why should it banned it will cause displeasure to so many people.
Boxing, because it is a big money business, should not be banned because it would affect not only the fighters themselves but also the managers, the proffesional referees and judges, security guards, organisers and betting offices.
Gambling is a major part of the boxing game, and huge amounts of money would be lost by betting offices if the sport was banned.
The people who organise boxing matches would also be affected by losing business and maybe becoming unemployed if the sport was banned.
The players themselves would be left unemployed also, because many of them being professional boxers have no other jobs to fall back on. Only the multimillionaire boxer who win every match, and get lots of money from sponsors etc. could survive unemployed.
Many boxers have participated in the sport all their lives and it would be a great loss to them if the sport was banned.
Boxing is also an Olympic event, and always has been, it would seem a shame to take it out of the Olympic line up, just for the sake of a minute risk of sustaining serious brain damage, and a few queasy women/men who dislike fighting.
