I am not a boxing fanatic. I wouldn't even describe myself as an enthusiast. I have never done any boxing in my entire life but I would still be prepared to defend the sport of boxing against anyone wishing to ban it.
First of all, there are already few enough liberties in this country when compared with other nations of similar political and economic conditions such as France and the United States. The day that the Government starts to ban popular sports like boxing is the day I apply for American citizenship. The only argument of those who are for the banning of the sport is the fact that in the past few years there have been three incidents in Britain which have left one boxer dead and two others with brain damage. These men were professionals, they were not stupid. All boxers know the risks and are surrounded by people who are trained to look after them. Boxing is a high risk, short term career the men who do it are aware of this, that is why they are paid so highly. I recently read a report that stated that football players who play full back or centre forward in non-league football are more prone to long term head injuries than boxers because they often go without treatment and without taking precautions when they get concussed. This is cleer evidence that without the large sums of money envolved boxing would be far more dangerous because the medical care would be poorer. So, those that say the money pushes these boxers to their fates may be wrong in thinking so because it is the money which protects them in a way.
How could we ever ban a sport as full of skill and traditional values (such as good sportsmanship) as boxing is beyond me. Perhaps the fact that it is a sport which almost entirely excludes women counts against it. I can imagine how much feminists would dislike its machoism. But this is no reason to stop this ancient sport. I watched the Benn-McLellan fight in 1994 and despite the shocking consequences for McLellan it was one of the most memorable sporting occasions I have ever seen; The same can be said for Ali and Foreman's "Rumble in the Jungle" and I wonder if anyone who watched Frank Bruno win his world title fight this year will ever forget it. When you watch boxers like Nassem Hamed at work it seems ridiculous to say that boxing isn't a proper sport and these incredibly talented men shouldn't be alowed to do what they do best and entertain.
Who would ban boxing if they had felt the excitement and passion which it evokes in those people who give it a chance. Banning boxing goes against the will of the many. Improving the availability of medical help is good enough for me, I think boxing should go on.
